[Music]
ten dangerous beauty inventions thank
goodness were left in the past from the
1920s through the 1950s the beauty
industry was just starting to take off
while there were lots of sensational
innovations created at that time some of
them looked more like torture devices
than they did beauty products which ones
were truly harmful to our health let's
take a look together before we start
don't forget to subscribe to our channel
and turn on notifications so that you'll
always be the first to see all our new
videos number 10 the beauty micrometer
hmm sounds like some sort of scientific
measuring tool doesn't it well that's
not too far off this device was created
to help makeup artists see all the
asymmetries unevenness and so-called
flaws of a model's face with the help of
the beauty micrometer makeup artists
would know which features should be
enhanced and which should be reduced
with the help of makeup seems like a
great idea right not really this device
in fact fixed tons of metal screws and
straps to a woman's head and could
require up to 325 adjustments obviously
it wasn't always a comfortable procedure
since the makeup artist could
accidentally press the models head with
these strips too tightly after using the
micrometer a lot of models would often
be left with painful headaches no wonder
this invention was quickly forgotten
number 9 the hair Weaver this device was
a dream come true for women who wanted
permanent curls back in the day before
you could walk into any salon and get a
chemical perm because you know even back
then women who had straight hair dreamed
of curls and vice versa
some things never change anyway what
seemed like the best thing since sliced
bread actually turned out to be a
disaster you see the hairdresser would
first apply a strong chemical solution
to the hair and then wind it up in
extremely hot rollers that hung from a
chandelier looking apparatus after a
six-hour session you can imagine that a
lot of women ended up with extremely
damaged hair and sometimes even scalp
burns
but pain is beauty I guess still with
better and better perming techniques
coming out over time the hair Weaver
became a forgotten thing of the past
number eight hangover heaven whenever we
feel tired or maybe hungover a good face
mask always saves the day in 1947 there
was a similar type of beauty Savior a
mask with different plastic tubes filled
with ice-cold water its original purpose
was to freshen up a model space during
fashion shows while not ruining her
makeup but a bit later people started
using the masks as a way to refresh
their faces after parties hence the name
not a bad idea right after all ice cubes
have always been great at removing
puffiness after a long night of drinking
but of course it wasn't good for your
skin if you wore it for a long time
since it could give you frostbite so its
popularity gradually died down
number seven freckle remover nowadays
freckles have become a huge Beauty trend
so much so that people who didn't get
them from Mother Nature are now drawing
them on their face and even getting
tattooed freckles but not that long ago
freckles were considered flaws and women
with freckled faces were desperate to
get rid of them desperate enough to use
the extreme freckle remover here's how
it went the makeup artists would apply a
special chemical solution to a woman's
face along with a gadget that would
close her eyes nostrils and mouth in
order to prevent chemical burn
definitely doesn't sound fun does it
apparently it worked and freckles would
disappear within a week all the same it
was still a dangerous procedure so it's
usage didn't last number six the glamor
bonnet the glamor bonnet sounds like
something sweet and fashionable but in
reality it was just a weird beekeeper
looking helmet inside it contained
lowered atmospheric pressure that was
supposed to help with blood circulation
everybody believed that after using the
bonnet a woman would look fresher and
her skin firmer and more youthful
but one dangerous side effect of using
the gadget was similar to the feeling
you'd get if you were to fly really high
in a plane or climb a tall mountain some
women would faint or feel nauseous of
course over time better methods to keep
skin fresh looking were found and the
glamor bonnet fell into oblivion
number five the warming mask this
strange-looking beauty tool at the past
was made to stimulate blood circulation
by heat making a woman's face look
smoother and healthier at first tons of
women wanted to try it to get
beautifully glowing skin although the
general idea of this mask wasn't too bad
the masks construction just wasn't safe
because you know more is more many girls
who wanted quick and long-lasting
results would set it to maximum heat as
you can imagine this was extremely
harmful to their skin and overall
well-being
thank goodness nowadays we have better
masks to suit anybody's needs number
four the dimpled machine who wouldn't
want to have adorable little dimples on
their cheeks looks like they were
desired back in the day too so like all
great inventions the dimpled machine was
created to provide what Mother Nature
didn't it was basically just a spring
with two knobs that would press into a
woman's cheeks in just the right places
the inventor promised that after wearing
it for several days women could achieve
very natural-looking dimples however it
didn't work out the way it should have
it was very uncomfortable while chewing
and it wasn't good for a woman's jaws in
fact it was even prone to causing
overbite after long-term use fewer and
fewer women were ready to experience
such difficulties and the device was
rightfully abandoned
number three the nose corrector today
it's not that hard to get a nose job as
long as you have the money a good
plastic surgeon and some free time for
surgery and recovery but it wasn't
always like that of course so women in
the past were presented the nose
corrector the ads promised that it could
change your nose simply by pressing on
it more specifically if a woman had a
bigger or crooked nose this contraption
would make it appear thinner and
straight but this amazing effect wasn't
permanent not to mention the nose
corrector prevented healthy normal
breathing since it didn't live up to the
expectations people moved on number two
toxic creams the discovery of radium by
Marie and Pierre Curie in 1898 resulted
in massive interest from the scientific
world and apparently from the beauty
community too so it wasn't long before
beauty products with radium entered the
market in fact radium was often the
first word you would see in ads for
these radioactive cosmetics and it
wasn't just a trendy gimmick they really
used radium in woman's face creams
nowadays everybody knows that radium is
extremely dangerous so for us the idea
of putting it on our face is beyond
wacky the inventors promise that these
creams would rejuvenate the face and
that the radium would clean it in a
magical way so magical that the product
quickly disappeared from commercial use
it's ok nobody missed it
number one the scalp massager ooh this
one just sounds super relaxing
I guess people have always loved a good
scalp massage so the great minds of the
past invented this huge contraption with
four vibrating discs to soothe the scalp
it was actually made to stimulate blood
circulation making hair grow faster and
supposedly preventing hair loss again
sounds great
however the invention was nothing
special since pretty much the same thing
can be achieved by anyone at home with
no special equipment necessary plus
doing it yourself was way safer and
healthier it's no surprise that the
scalp massager didn't really stick
around for that long which one of these
Beauty inventions was the craziest tell
us what you think in the comments below
don't forget to share this video with
your fellow Beauty lovers it's always
cool to find out more about the industry
right stay on the bright side of life
and we'll see you soon
[Music]